[Presently](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/issues/9808) (due to legacy/inheritance reasons), there is no convenient way to control the roll and pitch of and ArduSub vehicle with QGroundControl. The available solution is to use the roll_pitch_toggle joystick button function. When this button is pushed, the forward and lateral joystick axes toggle between controlling the forward and lateral motion of the vehicle and controlling the roll and pitch of the vehicle.

The roll and pitch input behaves differently in different flight modes.

- MANUAL: The roll and pitch input control the **rotation rate** of the vehicle. As long as the joystick input is deflected, the vehicle will continue to rotate. A centered joystick input commands a rotation rate of zero.
- ACRO: This functions like MANUAL, but the rate of rotation is precisely controlled and stabilized.
- STABILIZE: The roll and pitch input control the **desired angle** of the vehicle attitude. When the joystick input is centered, the vehicle will stabilize a level attitude. When the joystick input is deflected, the vehicle will stabilize the deflected angle. There are two parameters that control the maximum angle of vehicle deflection: the pilot input gain (which scales the input), and the ANGLE_MAX parameter (which controls the maximum angle that the vehicle will deflect in stabilize mode). For example, if the ANGLE_MAX parameter is 80 degrees, and the input gain is 50%, when the the roll or pitch joystick input is completely deflected, the vehicle will deflect 40 degrees ( 0.5 * 80 ). Press the roll_pitch_toggle joystick button while the vehicle is deflected to lock the current deflection angle and return to controlling forward and lateral motion. To clear the roll and pitch input command, switch to MANUAL mode, or press the roll_pitch_toggle button.
- DEPTH HOLD: This functions like STABILIZE mode, but the pressure-depth is also maintained. The throttle joystick is used to control the vehicle to the desired depth, and on joystick release the current depth will be stabilized to.
